feat: refresh backup and restore Landscape/PostgreSQL guide (#151)
canonical/landscape-documentation: docs/how-to-guides/backup-and-maintenance/backup-and-restore.md

Reviewer: I think you should consolidate the information that relates to the scope at the top of this doc, and also why we don't provide backup instructions for the Clients. This is so it's clear what will be covered and what isn't upfront to the user. This could look like:

------
# How to backup and restore Landscape

This guide describes the suggested method for backing up and restoring a self-hosted Landscape Server.

It covers:

- Backup and restore of the Landscape Server database using PostgreSQL point-in-time recovery (PITR)
- Backup of Landscape Server configuration files required to restore the application server
- Testing recovery procedures on a spare server

It doesn't cover:

- Juju deployments using Charmed PostgreSQL
  - Charmed PostgreSQL was introduced in the [Landscape 24.04 LTS charm](https://charmhub.io/landscape-server). See [Charmed PostgreSQL’s backup and restore documentation](https://canonical.com/data/docs/postgresql/iaas/h-create-backup) for information on backing up and restoring your charmed database.
- Backup of Landscape Clients
- PostgreSQL tuning or general database administration beyond what's required for PITR

Backup of Landscape Clients isn't covered in this guide due to the wide variety of clients (physical hardware, VMs, containers, some of which are permanent and others that are ephemeral). In many deployments, client-side data doesn't need to be backed up because clients can re-register with Landscape Server, and the main records are stored server-side.

## PITR and PostgreSQL

<"We strongly recommend..." section>

## Define a backup and retention policy

<continue with the rest like normal - remove anything that got pulled out to go in the intro>

We strongly recommend that administrators of a self-hosted Landscape instance familiarize themselves with PITR facilities and PostgreSQL's archived logging, also called write-ahead logging (WAL). Some syntactic configuration changes have occurred across PostgreSQL versions, so you should select the documentation for your particular PostgreSQL server version:

- [PostgreSQL 16](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/continuous-archiving.html) (Ubuntu 24.04 LTS)
- [PostgreSQL 14](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/continuous-archiving.html) (Ubuntu 22.04 LTS)
- [PostgreSQL 12](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/continuous-archiving.html) (Ubuntu 20.04 LTS)

> - [PostgreSQL 10](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/continuous-archiving.html) (Ubuntu 18.04 LTS)

Reviewer: Can we remove Postgres 10 (Ubuntu 18.04)? Is there any reason to keep it? Landscape 23.03 is the oldest we support, and it's for Ubuntu 22.04 or 22.04

> Given the wide variety of clients (from physical hardware, to VMs, to containers, some of which may be permanent and others merely temporary), backup of Landscape Clients (if required at all) isn't covered in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the wide variety of clients (from physical hardware, to VMs, to containers, some of which may be permanent and others that are temporary), backup of Landscape Clients (if required at all) isn't covered in this guide.
```

## Configure PostgreSQL

To configure PostgreSQL:

1. In the `postgresql.conf` configuration file, set `wal_level`, `archive_mode`, and `archive_command` according to the PostgreSQL documentation for your server's version.
2. Test that your `archive_command` operates correctly in all circumstances, including returning the correct exit codes.
3. Once you're confident the configuration is correct, restart the PostgreSQL service to activate archived logging.
4. Monitor the archive destination to ensure logs begin to appear there.
5. (Optional) If your server has very low traffic, you may want to use the `archive_timeout` setting to force archiving of partial logs after a timeout.
6. When WAL logs are being archived successfully, construct a script that executes `pg_basebackup` and stores the result in your base backup storage destination.
7. Test that this operates correctly as the cluster owner (typically `postgres`).
8. Add a cronjob to periodically execute this script (as the cluster owner).

> 

Reviewer: In the "Backup server configuration files" section, you should add a line somewhere that this needs to be done per each Server node. Just to be extra clear for HA deployments

6. Configure recovery settings in the PostgreSQL cluster's data directory. The method varies by PostgreSQL version:
    - **PostgreSQL 12 (Ubuntu 20.04 LTS) and later:** Set recovery configuration in `postgresql.conf` (e.g., `restore_command`). See the "Archive Recovery" documentation section in that file for examples and documentation of recovery settings. Then, create an empty `recovery.signal` file in the cluster data directory to trigger recovery mode.
    - **PostgreSQL 10 (Ubuntu 18.04 LTS):** Create a `recovery.conf` file with appropriate recovery settings; a template can be found at `/usr/share/postgresql/10/recovery.conf.sample`
7. Start the PostgreSQL cluster on the spare and watch the PostgreSQL logs to ensure recovery proceeds by retrieving and replaying WAL logs. Upon completion, PostgreSQL 12+ will automatically remove the `recovery.signal` file, while PostgreSQL 10 renames `recovery.conf` to `recovery.done`.
8. Once recovery is complete, run `/opt/canonical/landscape/hash-id-databases` to regenerate the hash databases cache

> 9. Finally, start the Landscape application server on the spare and test it to verify correct operation

Reviewer: Can you add something about what they should look for to "test to verify correct operation" ? It doesn't have to be perfect/include everything, but mentioning the most basic things would be helpful (e.g., the clients are all still registered and reporting data, previous data is still there, ......)
